what's up mix tapers that yeah remember
me okay so what I wanted to talk about
was a little thing called intonation
this time if you don't know what
intonation is to make it simple it's
basically the guitars ability to stay in
tune regardless of what fret you're on
for example if your intonation is off
and you go to play a major chord here
and sounds fine it's in tune everything
sounds good but then you go to play that
same ecord up here and you end up
noticing that it's a little sharp or a
little flat that means your intonation
is off to check and see if your
intonation is off what you need to do is
first of all tune your guitar and make
sure that all the strings are in tune
when you've got like when you're not
playing it at all if every string open
is in tune the next thing to do after
you've got all your strings in tune is
to keep the tuner on and then play the
12th fret which is an octave higher than
when you play open now if the tuner says
that the note is a little sharp or a
little flat that means that your
intonation is off now the way that
you're going to fix the intonation
problems is sometimes most times
something I would suggest that you let a
professional do because unless you have
a really good understanding of how the
guitar works and if you're taking my
advice right now you probably don't have
any better of an idea than I do I
wouldn't suggest necessarily doing it on
your own unless you feel a little bit
brave you don't mind maybe you screwing
your guitar up a little bit you know the
first and easiest way to start adjusting
your intonation is at least for my
guitar is right back here and get as
close as possible so you can see these
little guys right here have a little bit
justice on them all right there they use
flat head screws and what you can do is
you can adjust them back and forward I
would tell you what they're called but I
honestly don't know the proper name for
it so if you know the proper name please
leave it in the comments what you can do
is you can adjust them back and forth
and judging upon
your note is flat or your note is sharp
you can move it back or move it forward
to make it sharp or flat now if you find
out that adjusting that is just not
doing the trick another thing that you
can do is adjust the trust rod and if
you don't know how to access the truss
rod on your guitar most likely you
probably shouldn't be adjusting it in
the first place what the truss rod is is
a little rub that's inside the net here
basically the rod adjusts the arc of the
neck and not only does it adjust the
intonation but it will also adjust the
action and if you don't know what the
action is the action on a guitar is how
far the string is from the fret as it
goes down the board so if you're
straying you know is right where you
want it to be at one side of the board
but it's really high at the other side
of the board then that means your truss
rod also needs adjusting for that reason
as well there's a lot of different
adjustments you can obviously do when
they get to her between the bridge you
can change the nut you can change the
height you can change the truss rod
everything plays a role which is why I
say if you if you're not brave or you
don't have a really good understanding
of your target may be best you have a
professional do it but if you're willing
to give it a shot and wanting to learn
um give it give it a go now in my
particular model of guitar if you do
want to access the truss rod what you
would do is take these three screws up
right here and then this panel here this
little teeny tiny panel will come off on
the inside of that there is an allen
screw if you don't know what an allen
screw is is basically a six-sided screw
hole that you put a little tiny allen
wrench inside if you don't know an Allen
wrenches look it up on the Internet wiki
is a beautiful place now depending upon
whether you need the action to be closer
or the erection to be farther away you
would adjust the trust around
accordingly generally if I remember
correctly tightening it will make the
neck go this way and loosing in it
loosening it will make the net go this
way but that's just a crash course in
how to make adjustments on your
particular guitar as far as intonation
concerned if you're having any sort of
tuning issues so with that said I will
leave it at that if anybody has any
particular questions leave them in the
comments and if it's necessary I will do
another video either later in the week
or next monday on my day in regards to
how to do all this and if there's enough
people who want to see it actually done
i will take the guitar apart and show
you how to do each individual piece so
let me know in the comments if you want
me to do that and i will gladly do that
for you and also if you do want that
please specify if you'd rather see it on
an electric guitar or if you'd rather
see it on an acoustic guitar both of
them work kind of the same way but not
really but that's all for now Paul maybe
I'll see you tomorrow I hope everything
is going well for you in school the same
for you ed I know as for the rest of you
hi